Today we went to visit M. le
Capitain at Mans. [Fregier,
Fugier, or Frazier], parents
of Michel. We found them
exactly as a skillful novelist
would portray such a couple
under like circumstances: the
mother frankly sad that her
son should not be making every
effort to return home, the old
man more restrained, carefully
controlling his emotion; the
mother afraid that the son may
not return before his parent’s
death (the old man had been on
the point of death during the
past winter), and urging us to
tell the son how ill his father
had been, but the pére
objecting, we should not tell
him everything and make it
harder for him to continue his
own course; the mother
excitedly asking for news, did
he look well? was he dressed
well? did he work hard? – The
father asking nothing but
listening attentively.